Speed 2: Cruise Control is a 1997 American action thriller film, and a sequel to Speed (1994). The film was produced and directed by Jan de Bont, and written by Randall McCormick and Jeff Nathanson, based on a story by de Bont and McCormick. Sandra Bullock stars in the film, reprising her role from Speed, while Jason Patric and Willem Dafoe co-star. The film was released by 20th Century Fox on June 13, 1997.The plot involves couple Annie and Alex taking a vacation in the Caribbean aboard a luxury cruise ship, which is hijacked by a villain named Geiger who hacked into the ship's computer system. As they are trapped aboard the ship, Annie and Alex work with the ship's first officer to try to stop the ship, which they discover is programmed to cruise into an oil tanker.De Bont came up with the idea for the film after he had a recurring nightmare about a cruise ship crashing into an island. Speed star Keanu Reeves was initially supposed to reprise his role for the sequel, but decided not to commit and was replaced by Patric prior to filming. Production took place aboard Seabourn Legend, the ship on which the film is set. The film's final scene, where the ship crashes into the island of Saint Martin, cost almost one quarter of the film's $110 million budget, and set records as the largest and most expensive stunt ever filmed. Many interior scenes aboard the ship were shot on soundstages in the Greater Los Angeles Area. The film's soundtrack featured mostly reggae music, and Mark Mancina composed the film score, which was released as an album 13 years after the film's release.Critics had mostly negative reception towards the film, criticizing its acting, story, and characters. One major criticism was that the film's setting on a slow-moving cruise ship was much less thrilling than Speed's setting on a fast-moving bus. The film was an overall success, earning nearly $165 million worldwide but covering less than half of its budget in the United States. It was nominated for eight Golden Raspberry Awards, and won the award for "Worst Re-Make or Sequel".
