Sense and Sensibility is a 1995 British-American period drama film directed by Ang Lee and based on Jane Austen's 1811 eponymous novel. Actress Emma Thompson wrote the script and stars as Elinor Dashwood, while Kate Winslet plays Elinor's younger sister Marianne. The story follows the Dashwood sisters – though they are members of a wealthy English family of landed gentry, circumstances result in their sudden destitution, forcing them to seek financial security through marriage. Actors Hugh Grant and Alan Rickman play their respective suitors. It was released on 13 December 1995 in the United States and on 23 February 1996 in the United Kingdom.Producer Lindsay Doran, a longtime admirer of Austen's novel, hired Thompson to write the screenplay. The actress spent five years penning numerous revisions, continually working on the script between other films as well as into production of the film itself. Studios were nervous that Thompson – a first-time screenwriter – was the credited writer, but Columbia Pictures agreed to distribute the film. Though she initially intended another actress to portray Elinor, Thompson was persuaded to undertake the part herself, despite the wide disparity with her character's age.Thompson's screenplay exaggerated the Dashwood family wealth to make their later scenes of poverty more apparent to modern audiences. It also altered the traits of the male leads to make them more appealing to contemporary viewers. Elinor and Marianne's different characteristics were emphasised through imagery and invented scenes. Ang Lee was selected as director, both due to his work in the 1993 film The Wedding Banquet and because Doran felt he would help the film appeal to a wider audience. Given a budget of $16 million, Lee approached filming from different perspectives than his cast and crew before the actors grew to trust his instincts.A commercial success, the film garnered overwhelmingly positive reviews upon release and received many accolades, including three awards and eleven nominations at the 1995 British Academy Film Awards. It earned seven Academy Awards nominations, including for Best Picture and Best Actress (for Thompson). The actress received the Best Adapted Screenplay, becoming the only person to have won for both acting and writing awards at the Academy Awards. Sense and Sensibility contributed to a resurgence in popularity for Austen's works, and has led to many more productions in similar genres. It persists in being recognised as one of the best Austen adaptations of all time.
