Batman Forever is a 1995 American superhero film directed by Joel Schumacher and produced by Tim Burton, based on the DC Comics character Batman. It is the third installment of Warner Bros.' initial Batman film series, with Val Kilmer replacing Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne/Batman. Also stars Tommy Lee Jones, Jim Carrey, Nicole Kidman and Chris O'Donnell. The plot focuses on Batman trying to stop Two-Face and the Riddler in their villainous scheme to drain information from all the brains in Gotham City. He gains allegiance from a love interest—psychiatrist Dr. Chase Meridian—and a young, orphaned circus acrobat named Dick Grayson, who becomes his sidekick Robin.The film's tone was different from the previous installments, becoming more family-friendly since Warner Bros. considered that the previous film, Batman Returns (1992), underperformed at the box office due to its violence and dark overtones. Schumacher eschewed the dark, dystopian atmosphere of Burton's films, and drew inspiration directly from the Batman comic book seen in the 1940s/early 1950s, and the 1960s television series. The budget of the film was an estimated $100,000,000. Production was troubled, with many actors considered for the main roles. Filming locations include Alcatraz Island, San Francisco, CA and the Manhattan Bridge in New York City, NY.The film was released on June 16, 1995. Batman Forever received favorable reviews upon release, with critics praising the cinematography, visuals and art direction. But over the years, the film has received more unfavorable reviews, criticizing its campy and bombastic tone, lack of continuity with the previous installments, thin characterization, and the acting, particularly of Tommy Lee Jones as Two-Face. The film had success with audiences, out-grossing Batman Returns with over $336 million worldwide and becoming the sixth-highest grossing film worldwide of 1995. It made $52,784,433 in the United States for its opening weekend (June 22, 1995) on 2842 screens.
