The Replacement Killers is a 1998 American action film directed by Antoine Fuqua in his directorial debut, and starring Chow Yun-fat, Mira Sorvino, Michael Rooker and Kenneth Tsang. The film was released in the United States on February 6, 1998. The storyline was conceived from a screenplay written by Ken Sanzel. Veteran action director John Woo co-produced and choreographed the action sequences. The film is set in modern day Los Angeles and follows an emotionally disillusioned assassin played by actor Chow Yun-fat, who is forced to settle a violent vendetta against a ruthless crime boss. The film marks the American acting debut for Yun-fat, as his previous film credits included Hong Kong action cinema only.The film was a co-production between the motion picture studios of Columbia Pictures, Brillstein-Grey Entertainment, and WCG Entertainment Productions. Theatrically, it was commercially distributed by Columbia Pictures, while the Sony Pictures Entertainment division released the film in the video rental market. The Replacement Killers explores assassination, violence and the influence of triads in modern society. Following its wide release in theaters, the film failed to garner any award nominations for its editing merits or cinematography. The film score was orchestrated by Harry Gregson-Williams; the soundtrack was released by the Varèse Sarabande music label on March 10, 1998.The Replacement Killers premiered in theaters nationwide in the United States on February 6, 1998 grossing $19,204,929 in domestic ticket receipts. The film was screened at 1,936 theaters during its widest release in cinemas. Taking into account its $30 million budget costs, the film was considered a disappointing box office flop. The film's critical response didn't fare better either. Preceding its initial screening to the public, it was generally met with mixed to negative reviews. With its initial foray into the home media marketplace; the widescreen DVD edition of the film featuring scene selections, a featurette, and interviews among other highlights was released in the United States on July 1, 1998.
